This file contains my thoughts on what the game should do. Consider it as a
sort of pseudo-requirements doc, but without any hard rules or traceability.


The Pod:

The pod is pretty simple - it floats like a float-bot, stings like an automatic
stingin' machine and moves like a boat (see the old screamers).

The pod has a fixed energy pool, which slowly recharges.
Pickups can be grabbed to increase the recharge rate and pool size. Shots take power
from pool. The more powerful the shot, the more energy it takes. Players start with
level 1 shots, and can get pickups to increase shots to level 3. Pod has 2 guns.

Damage from shots and bumping too hard against obstacles is absorbed by a shield,
which uses energy from the pool.

Power from the pool can be dumped to engines to move at a faster (2x?) rate.

Pod explodes when total energy reaches 0.

Shooting or moving can never reduce the energy all the way to 0; the only way a player
can die is by hitting too many walls/getting shot too much.

As far as pod physics, I'd love for zipping around on a flat surface to feel just
like the old screamers.  For more complicated worlds, I'm thinking that the pod
will have a sort of force field pushing up whose strength is some factor of the
distance to the ground.  This will allow moving around on terrain, but you can still
run into it if you move to fast towards too steep a surface.  There should probably
be some kind of jumping involved, but I haven't thought about that yet


World features:

The world has areas that are impassable. These are objects in the world. The pod
should react when it hits them ( bump off, or climb up ).

The world can have safety zones, where no shot may be generated or pass thru.
Anyone in this area is conisidered safe. There should be a limit on how often
you can go in these things. mostly it's for when you have to pee. ( just an idea
David adds: I don't like the idea of any safety areas or pausing - you can die or
sit out for a round if you need to pee)

The world should have pickups. These are objects that pods can pick up, and give
the pod "things". Things such as upgraded weapons, more power, or other abilities.


Scoring:

Every pickup a player picks up adds 1 to his bounty. When a player dies, his bounty is set
to 0. This means that the longer a player is alive, the higher his bounty will be.
When you kill a player, his bounty is added to your score, as well as added to your
bounty. This means that the better players will be "jucier" targets, and can make
for some very fun gameplay.  It also avoids rewarding cowardice.

Some game modes will not use the bounty based score, but rely on kills or flag captures.

Game modes:

DeathMatch:
	Very simple, run around, shoot other players.

	Mode options would include:
		Timed rounds - highest score wins.
		Frag limit games.
		Last man standing games with a respawn limit.
		Max Score limit games

	A game is a round of action. Game should be ether open or closed.

	Open games let anyone join at a time, they will just be at a disadvantage
	for that round, and start as a normal player in the next round.

	Closed games don't let players join untill a round starts. This creates a more
	"pure" game, but can be frustrating for new players, or people just looking for fun.

	both team and true Free for all.

Capture the flag:
	Always a team game. Rounds run to a max capture limit. Players move from an
	area(s) that are designated their "base". Each base has a flag holder with
	it's assocated team flag. Teams attempt to enter the other teams base and
	capture their flag and bring it back to there own base, and touch it to there
	team flag in it's holder.

	When a flag carrier dies he drops the flag. When a team touches it's own team
	flag and it is loose on the ground, the flag teleports back to it's holder. There
	should be an option to respawn everyone on each capture, with some sort of delay
	after capture, where no caputures can happen. As with FFA allow options for open
	and closed games.

Race:
	canyon pod racing, baby. just because last exile r0x0rz my s0x0rz.

	This is always a closed game: noone can join when a race is underway.
	Players start at a start line and have to complete N laps. Each lap is a path around
	the map procedeing across N waypoints in order. Pickups spawn on the map. Weapons and
	stuff are allowed. Anyone who dies durning the race is "out" and must observe until
	the race is complete.


Other stuff:
	When a player connects in the middle of a closed game, they're put in a 'waiting
	room'.  During this time, they're allowed to observe the current round.

	When a player dies out of a round, they're put in observer mode for the remainder
	of the round.

