The uvswitch project contains hardware and software
for an 8-port USB audio/video switch and signal detector.
It was primarily designed for use with the Wasabi project.

The uvswitch board includes RCA connectors for A/V output
and for 8 input channels. Additionally, a bypass input
and bypass input connector are provided.

The uvswitch always connects at most one of the 8 inputs
to the output channel. However, the bypass output can
either be connected to the bypass input or to the main
video output. In the Wasabi project, the main outputs
were connected to Wasabi's video capture card, wasabi's
video output connected to uvswitch's bypass input, and
the uvswitch's bypass input to the TV. This allows external
video sources to be routed directly to the TV, or to
wasabi's video capture card and then to the TV, for real-time
video filtering effects.

Wasabi's video detector uses a slow A/D converter and
software filtering to detect input signals. It usually works
well enough, and is a lot cheaper and simpler than a real
video sync detector.

With the Linux kernel module interface to uvswitch, you can
set the video channel simply by writing a number to the
uvswitch device. To set it to channel 3 for instance:

   echo 3 > /dev/usb/uvswitch

The device accepts up to 4 numbers at a time, only the first
is mandatory. They are the video input channel, bypass switch
state, left audio channel, and right audio channel. If the
bypass switch state is not specified, it remains in its
previous state. The audio channels default to the same as the
video if not specified, and both audio channels are set to
the same channel if only one is specified.

To use the uvswitch's video detector, simply read from the
uvswitch device. It will immediately return one line with
each channel number an input is detected on, separated by
spaces. Any time the input states change, a new line will be
sent. This is compatible with the select() and poll() system
calls so your application can be notified of changes immediately.

--Micah Dowty <micah@picogui.org>

